Add release notes for 0.286 (#21906)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-0.286.rst

General Changes
_______________
* Fix a bug for ``min_by`` and ``max_by`` for window functions, where results are incorrect when the function specifies number of elements to keep and the window does not have “unbounded following” in the frame. :pr:`21793`
* Fix a potential bug in ``EXCEPT`` and ``INTERSECT`` queries by not pruning unreferenced output for intersect and except nodes in the PruneUnreferencedOutputs rule. :pr:`21343`
* Fix a bug in PullUpExpressionInLambdaRules optimizer where expressions being extracted were of JoniRegexType or LikePatternType. :pr:`21407`
* Extend PullUpExpressionInLambdaRulesFix optimizers to now extract independent expressions from within conditional expressions. :pr:`21344`
* Fix an issue with the serialization of the retriable property in QueryError. :pr:`19741`
* Fix the compilation error of merge function for KHyperLogLog state and add a config property ``limit-khyperloglog-agg-group-number-enabled`` to control whether to limit the number of groups for aggregation functions using KHyperLogLog state. (enabled by default) :pr:`21824`
* Fix a bug in CTE materialization which was causing incorrect plan generation in some cases. :pr:`21580`

> * Fix redis-provider-plugin docs to include the correct configuration properties and added documentation for coordinator HBO configurations. :pr:`21477`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* * Fix :doc:`/plugin/redis-hbo-provider` documentation to include the correct configuration properties and added documentation for coordinator HBO configurations. :pr:`21477`
```

> * * Fix :doc:`/plugin/redis-hbo-provider` documentation to include the correct configuration properties and added documentation for coordinator HBO configurations. :pr:`21477`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix :doc:`/plugin/redis-hbo-provider` documentation to include the correct configuration properties and added documentation for coordinator HBO configurations. :pr:`21477`
```

* Add validation in Presto client to ensure that the host and port of the next URI do not change during query execution in Presto, enhancing security by preventing redirection to untrusted sources. :pr:`21101`
* Add :doc:`Ecosystem </ecosystem/list>` documentation. :pr:`21698`
* Add ``cte_hash_partition_count`` session property to specify the number of buckets or writers to be used when using CTE Materialization. :pr:`21625`
* Add :doc:`/installation/deploy-helm` to Installation documentation. :pr:`21812`
* Remove redundant sort columns from query plans if a unique constraint can be identified for a prefix of the ordering list. :pr:`21371`
* Add changelog table ``$changelog`` that allows users  to track when records were added or deleted in snapshots. :pr:`20937`
* Add `reservoir_sample <../functions/aggregate.html#reservoir_sample>`_ aggregation function which is useful for generating fixed-size samples. :pr:`21296`
* Remove ``exchange.async-page-transport-enabled`` configuration property as deprecated. :pr:`21772`
* Pass extra credentials such as CAT tokens for definer mode in views. :pr:`21685`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add function ``map_top_n_keys_by_value`` which returns top ``n`` keys of a map by value. :pr:`21259`
* Add support for materialization of Common Table Expressions (CTEs) in queries. The underlying connectors must support creating temporary tables, a functionality presently exclusive to the Hive connector. :pr:`20887`
```

* Add support for Day, Month, and Year transform function with partition column for timestamp type in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21303`
* Day, Month, Year, and Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering a table to add partition columns in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21575`
* Optimize Table Metadata calls for Iceberg tables. :pr:`21629`
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_, enabling the retrieval of historical data with the `AS OF` syntax. :pr:`21425`
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``TIMESTAMP (SYSTEM_TIME)`` syntax includes timestamp-with-time-zone data type. It will return data based on snapshot with matching timestamp or before. :pr:`21425`
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``VERSION (SYSTEM_VERSION)`` syntax includes snapshot id using bigint data type. :pr:`21425`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add manifest file caching support for Iceberg native catalogs. :pr:`21399`
* Fix Iceberg memory leak with ``DeleteFile``.  :pr:`21612`

```

* Add Iceberg Filter Pushdown Optimizer Rule for execution with Velox. :pr:`20501`
* Add ``iceberg.pushdown-filter-enabled`` config property to Iceberg Connector. This config property controls the behaviour of Filter Pushdown in the Iceberg connector. :pr:`20501`
* Add `register <../connector/iceberg.html#register-table>`_  and `unregister <../connector/iceberg.html#unregister-table>`_ procedures for Iceberg tables. :pr:`21335`
* Add session property ``iceberg.delete_as_join_rewrite_enabled`` (enabled by default) to apply equality deletes as a join. :pr:`21605`
* Add support for querying ``"$data_sequence_number"`` which returns the Iceberg data sequence number of the file containing the row. :pr:`21605`
* Add support for querying ``"$path"`` which returns the file path containing the row. :pr:`21605`
* Add support for reading v2 row level deletes in Iceberg connector. :pr:`21189`
* Add support for Day, Month, and Year transform function with partition column for date type in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21303`
* Add support for Day, Month, and Year transform function with partition column for timestamp type in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21303`

> * Day, Month, Year, and Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering a table to add partition columns in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21575`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for Day, Month, Year, and Hour partition column transform functions when altering a table to add partition columns in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21575`
```

=============
Release 0.286
=============

**Highlights**
==============

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________
* Fix a bug for min_by/max_by for window function, where results are incorrect when the function specifies number of elements to keep and the window does not have “unbounded following” in the frame.

> * Fix a potential bug in EXCEPT and INTERSECT queries. Do not prune unreferenced output in intersect and except nodes. :pr:`21343`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix a potential bug in EXCEPT and INTERSECT queries by not pruning output for intersect and except nodes in the PruneUnreferencedOutputs rule. :pr:`21343`
```

> * Fix bug of pull lambda out optimizers when expressions pulled out are of type JoniRegexType or LikePatternType.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix a bug in PullUpExpressionInLambdaRuleswhen expressions being extracted were of JoniRegexType or LikePatternType. :pr:`21407`
```

> * Fix lambda expression pull out optimizer so that it will be able to extract independent expressions from conditional expression. :pr:`21344`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Extend PullUpExpressionInLambdaRulesFix optimizers to now extract independent expressions from within conditional expressions. :pr:`21344`
```

> * Fix serialized name for retriable QueryError property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix an issue with the serialization of the retriable property in QueryError.
```

* Fix the compilation error of merge function for KHyperLogLog state.
* Fixed a bug in cte materialization which was causing incorrect plan generation in some cases.

> * Fixed redis-provider-plugin docs which previously contained an incorrect file name for property loading, and included the HBO configurations for the coordinator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix redis-provider-plugin docs to include the correct configuration properties and added documentation for coordinator HBO configurations. :pr:`21477`
```

* Fixed writtenIntermediateBytes metric by ensuring its correct population through temporary table writers.

> * Improve efficiency of partial aggregation step. This can be enabled by setting the ``adaptive_partial_aggregation`` session property to true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add support for adaptive partial aggregation which disables partial aggregation in cases where it could be inefficient. This feature is configurable by the session property ``adaptive_partial_aggregation`` (disabled by default)
```

* Improve predicate pushdown through Joins.

> * Improve the readability of query plan by making the number printed in query plan to be comma separated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improve the readability of query plans by formatting numbers with commas for easier interpretation.
```

* Add REGR_AVGX, REGR_AVGY, REGR_COUNT, REGR_R2, REGR_SXX, REGR_SXY, and REGR_SYY.

> * Add UPDATE sql support in Presto Engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add UPDATE sql support in Presto. :pr:`21435`
```

> * Add a session property to skip hash precomputation for join when the input is table scan, and the hash is on a single big int and is not reused later. It's controlled by session property `skip_hash_generation_for_join_with_table_scan_input` and default to not enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Skip hash precomputation in HashGenerationOptimizer for joins where the input is a table scan and the hash is on a single big integer that isn't reused later. This feature is configurable by the session property `skip_hash_generation_for_join_with_table_scan_input` (disabled by default). :pr:`20948`
```

> * Add an feature config property `khyperloglog-agg-group-limit` to set the maximum number of groups `khyperloglog_agg` can have. It will fail the query when the limit is exceeded. The default is 0 which means no limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add a config property `khyperloglog-agg-group-limit` to limit the maximum number of groups `khyperloglog_agg` function can have. The query will fail when the limit is exceeded. (The default is 0 which means no limit). :pr:`21510`
```

* Add an feature config property `limit-khyperloglog-agg-group-number-enabled` to control whether to limit the number of groups for aggregation functions using KHyperLogLog state.

> * Add an optimization to optimize queries which has equivalence check filter or constant assignments. Controlled by session property `rewrite_expression_with_constant_expression` and default to enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Introduced an optimization to improve queries featuring equivalence check filters or constant assignments. This is controlled by the session property `rewrite_expression_with_constant_expression`(enabled by default).
```

> * Add an optimization to rewrite left join with array contains in join condition to equi join, the optimization is controlled by session property `rewrite_left_join_array_contains_to_equi_join `.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Introduced an optimization that transforms left joins with an array contains condition in the join criteria into an equi join. This optimization is controlled by session property `rewrite_left_join_array_contains_to_equi_join `(disabled by default)
```

> * Add client option to disable redirects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add an option in the Presto client to disable redirects. :pr:`21024`
```

> * Add simple configurations to prestodb/presto docker image and make the image easier to use, including ``config.properties`` and ``jvm.config``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Make prestodb/presto docker image easier to use by including ``config.properties`` and ``jvm.config`` files.
```

> * Add support for running on Linux and M1/M2 macOS aarch64 (ARM64).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Upgrade ``hadoop-apache2`` to ``2.7.4-12``.  This fixes errors like ``library not found: /nativelib/Linux-aarch64/libhadoop.so`` not found when running presto on ARM64.
```

> * Add validation to check that next URI host and port does not change during query execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add validation to check that next URI host and port does not change during query execution.
```
```suggestion
* Add validation in presto client to ensure that the host and port of the next URI do not change during query execution in Presto, enhancing security by preventing redirection to untrusted sources. :pr:`21101`
```

* Added 1 folder(ecosystem) and 1 file in sphinx.
* Added 1 line in sphinx/index.rst.

> * Added CTE hash partition count session property.

Reviewer 2: * Add cte_hash_partition_count session property to specify the number of buckets or writers to be used when using CTE Materialization :pr:`21625`

* Added Helm Charts to Installation documentation.

> * Remove redundant sort columns from Plan nodes if a unique constraint can be identified for a prefix of the ordering list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Remove redundant sort columns from query plans if a unique constraint can be identified for a prefix of the ordering list.
```

> * A new changelog table has been added to the Iceberg connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A new changelog system table called ``$changelog`` that
allows users to return a table containing information about when which snapshots specific records were added or deleted. :pr:`20937`
```

> * A reservoir_sample aggregation function is now available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add `reservoir_sample<../functions/aggregate.html#reservoir_sample>`_ aggregation function which is useful for generating fixed-size samples. :pr:`21296`
```

> * * Add validation in Presto client to ensure that the host and port of the next URI do not change during query execution in Presto, enhancing security by preventing redirection to untrusted sources. :pr:`21101`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add validation in Presto client to ensure that the host and port of the next URI do not change during query execution in Presto, enhancing security by preventing redirection to untrusted sources. :pr:`21101`
```
Fixed formatting of extra indentation of this list item.

> * Add ``cte_hash_partition_count`` session property to specify the number of buckets or writers to be used when using CTE Materialization. :pr:21625

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add ``cte_hash_partition_count`` session property to specify the number of buckets or writers to be used when using CTE Materialization. :pr:`21625`
```

* Deprecate exchange.async-page-transport-enabled configuration property.
* Pass extra credentials such as CAT tokens for definer mode in views.

Iceberg Connector Changes
_________________________
* Upgrade Apache Iceberg to 1.4.3.

SPI Changes
___________
* Add support for connectors to return joins  in ``ConnectorPlanOptimizer.optimize``.

Hive Changes
____________
* Fix parquet dereference pushdown, which fails when parquet_use_column_names is not enabled before.
* Fixed CTE Materialization for unsupported hive bucket types.
* Deprecate hive config ``hive.s3.use-instance-credentials``. This config will be removed in the upcoming release (:issue:`21633`).

Hudi Changes
____________
* Upgrade Hudi version to 0.14.0.

Iceberg Changes
_______________
* Add Iceberg Filter Pushdown Optimizer Rule for execution with Velox.

> * Add ``iceberg.pushdown-filter-enabled`` config property to Iceberg Connector. This config property will control the behaviour of Filter Pushdown in the iceberg connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add IcebergFilterPushdownOptimizer for with Presto native execution. This feature is configurable by the configuration property ``iceberg.pushdown-filter-enabled``. 
```
Please combine this and previous line into a unified line

> * Add `reservoir_sample<../functions/aggregate.html#reservoir_sample>`_ aggregation function which is useful for generating fixed-size samples. :pr:`21296`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add `reservoir_sample <../functions/aggregate.html#reservoir_sample>`_ aggregation function which is useful for generating fixed-size samples. :pr:`21296`
```
Add space between `reservoir_sample` and `<` for the link to build correctly. Verified in local build.

> Iceberg Connector Changes ------------------xxx---------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> _________________________------------------xxx---------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Upgrade Apache Iceberg to 1.4.3.------------------xxx---------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This Iceberg heading and first entry is duplicated below, deleting it here.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Fix parquet dereference pushdown which was not working unless the ``parquet_use_column_names`` session property was set. :pr:21647

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix parquet dereference pushdown which was not working unless the ``parquet_use_column_names`` session property was set. :pr:`21647`
```

> * Upgrade Apache Iceberg to 1.4.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgrade Apache Iceberg to 1.4.3.  :pr:`21714`
```

* Add ``iceberg.pushdown-filter-enabled`` config property to Iceberg Connector. This config property controls the behaviour of Filter Pushdown in the Iceberg connector. :pr:`20501`
* Add `register <../connector/iceberg.html#register-table>`_  and `unregister <../connector/iceberg.html#unregister-table>`_ procedures for Iceberg tables. :pr:`21335`

> * Add session property ``iceberg.delete_as_join_rewrite_enabled`` (enabled by default) to apply equality deletes as a join. :pr:21605

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add session property ``iceberg.delete_as_join_rewrite_enabled`` (enabled by default) to apply equality deletes as a join. :pr:`21605`
```

* Add support for querying ``"$data_sequence_number"`` which returns the Iceberg data sequence number of the file containing the row. :pr:`21605`
* Add support for querying ``"$path"`` which returns the file path containing the row. :pr:`21605`
* Add support for reading v2 row level deletes in Iceberg connector. :pr:`21189`
* Add support for Day, Month, and Year transform function with partition column for date type in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21303`
* Add support for Day, Month, and Year transform function with partition column for timestamp type in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21303`

> * Day, Month, Year & Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering a table to add partition columns in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21575`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Day, Month, Year, and Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering a table to add partition columns in Presto Iceberg connector. :pr:`21575`
```

* Optimize Table Metadata calls for Iceberg tables. :pr:`21629`

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF TIMESTAMP '2023-10-17 13:29:46.822 America/Los_Angeles';. ----------xxxx-------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These examples can be deleted.

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR SYSTEM_VERSION AS OF 8772871542276440693;.----------xxxx-------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These examples can be deleted.

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR TIMESTAMP AS OF TIMESTAMP '2023-10-17 13:29:46.822 America/Los_Angeles';. ----------xxxx-------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These examples can be deleted.

* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_, enabling the retrieval of historical data with the `AS OF` syntax. :pr:`21425`

> * Add support for `Time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``TIMESTAMP (SYSTEM_TIME)`` syntax includes timestamp-with-time-zone data type. It will return data based on snapshot with matching timestamp or before. :pr:`21425`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``TIMESTAMP (SYSTEM_TIME)`` syntax includes timestamp-with-time-zone data type. It will return data based on snapshot with matching timestamp or before. :pr:`21425`
```
Capitalization consistent with line 81.

> * Add support for `Time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``VERSION (SYSTEM_VERSION)`` syntax includes snapshot id using bigint data type. :pr:`21425`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ ``VERSION (SYSTEM_VERSION)`` syntax includes snapshot id using bigint data type. :pr:`21425`
```
Capitalization consistent with line 81.

=============
Release 0.286
=============

**Highlights**
==============

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________
* Fix a bug for min_by/max_by for window function, where results are incorrect when the function specifies number of elements to keep and the window does not have “unbounded following” in the frame.
* Fix a potential bug in except and intersect queries. Do not prune unreferenced output in intersect and except nodes.
* Fix bug of pull lambda out optimizers when expressions pulled out are of type JoniRegexType or LikePatternType.

> * Fix lambda expression pull out optimizer so that it will be able to extract independent expressions from conditional expression.

Author: updated

* Fix serialized name for retriable QueryError property.
* Fix the compilation error of merge function for KHyperLogLog state.
* Fixed a bug in cte materialization which was causing incorrect plan generation in some cases.
* Fixed redis-provider-plugin docs which previously contained an incorrect file name for property loading, and included the HBO configurations for the coordinator.
* Fixed writtenIntermediateBytes metric by ensuring its correct population through temporary table writers.
* Improve efficiency of partial aggregation step. This can be enabled by setting the ``adaptive_partial_aggregation`` session property to true.
* Improve predicate pushdown through Joins.
* Improve the readability of query plan by making the number printed in query plan to be comma separated.

> * Add REGR_AVGX, REGR_AVGY, REGR_COUNT, REGR_R2, REGR_SXX, REGR_SXY, and REGR_SYY.

Reviewer 2: Add additional linear regression functions like REGR_AVGX, REGR_AVGY, REGR_COUNT, REGR_R2, REGR_SXX, REGR_SXY, and REGR_SYY. :pr:`21630`

* Add an optimization to rewrite left join with array contains in join condition to equi join, the optimization is controlled by session property `rewrite_left_join_array_contains_to_equi_join `.
* Add client option to disable redirects.
* Add simple configurations to prestodb/presto docker image and make the image easier to use, including ``config.properties`` and ``jvm.config``.
* Add support for running on Linux and M1/M2 macOS aarch64 (ARM64).
* Add validation to check that next URI host and port does not change during query execution.
* Added 1 folder(ecosystem) and 1 file in sphinx.
* Added 1 line in sphinx/index.rst.
* Added CTE hash partition count session property.
* Added Helm Charts to Installation documentation.
* Remove redundant sort columns from Plan nodes if a unique constraint can be identified for a prefix of the ordering list.
* A new changelog table has been added to the Iceberg connector.
* A reservoir_sample aggregation function is now available.
* Deprecate exchange.async-page-transport-enabled configuration property.
* Pass extra credentials such as CAT tokens for definer mode in views.

> Iceberg Connector Changes

Author: done

_________________________
* Upgrade Apache Iceberg to 1.4.3.

SPI Changes
___________
* Add support for connectors to return joins  in ``ConnectorPlanOptimizer.optimize``.

Hive Changes
____________

> * Fix parquet dereference pushdown, which fails when parquet_use_column_names is not enabled before.

Reviewer 2: * Fix parquet dereference pushdown which was not working unless the ``parquet_use_column_names`` hive session property was set.. :pr:`21647`

* Fixed CTE Materialization for unsupported hive bucket types.
* Deprecate hive config ``hive.s3.use-instance-credentials``. This config will be removed in the upcoming release (:issue:`21633`).

Hudi Changes
____________
* Upgrade Hudi version to 0.14.0.

Iceberg Changes
_______________
* Add Iceberg Filter Pushdown Optimizer Rule for execution with Velox.
* Add ``iceberg.pushdown-filter-enabled`` config property to Iceberg Connector. This config property will control the behaviour of Filter Pushdown in the iceberg connector.
* Add register and unregister procedures for Iceberg tables.

> * Add support for applying equality deletes as a join. This can be enabled with the session property ``iceberg.delete_as_join_pushdown_enabled``.

Reviewer 2: * Add support for applying equality deletes as a join. This can be configured with the session property ``iceberg.delete_as_join_rewrite_enabled`` (enabled by default). :pr:`21605`

* Add support for querying ``"$data_sequence_number"`` which returns the Iceberg data sequence number of the file containing the row.
* Add support for querying ``"$path"`` which returns the file path containing the row.
* Add support for reading v2 row level deletes in Iceberg connector.
* Day, Month & Year partition column transform functions are supported for date type in Presto Iceberg connector.
* Day, Month, Year & Hour partition column transform functions are supported for timestamp type in Presto Iceberg connector.

> * Day, Month, Year & Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering table to add columns in Presto Iceberg connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Day, Month, Year & Hour partition column transform functions are supported when altering table to add columns in Presto Iceberg connector.
```
Day, Month & Year partition column transform functions are supported when altering a table to add partition columns. :pr:`21575`

* Examples :.

> * Optimize Table Metadata calls for Iceberg tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optimize Table Metadata calls for Iceberg tables. :pr:`21629`
```

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF TIMESTAMP '2023-10-17 13:29:46.822 America/Los_Angeles';.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Example included from PR 21425, deleted line.

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR SYSTEM_VERSION AS OF 8772871542276440693;.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Example included from PR 21425, deleted line.

* SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR TIMESTAMP AS OF TIMESTAMP '2023-10-17 13:29:46.822 America/Los_Angeles';.

> * SELECT * FROM tab1 FOR VERSION AS OF 8772871542276440693;.

Author: updated

> * Support time travel `AS OF` syntax for Iceberg tables to return historical data.

Reviewer 2: * Introduces support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_ `, enabling the retrieval of historical data with the `AS OF` syntax.

> * Support time travel `AS OF` syntax for Iceberg tables to return historical data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for `time travel <../connector/iceberg.html#time-travel-using-version-system-version-and-timestamp-system-time>`_, enabling the retrieval of historical data with the `AS OF` syntax. :pr:`21425`
```

Nice rephrasing in "enabling the retrieval of historical data with the `AS OF` syntax."

Change from Introduces to Add suggested based on the [Order of Changes](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-changes) in [Release Note Guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guideline).

> * Time travel TIMESTAMP (SYSTEM_TIME) syntax will include timestamp-with-time-zone data type. It will return data based on snapshot with matching timestamp or before.

Author: updated as suggested
